#Unix Assignment 1<br><br>initial notes:*-To analyze the final assignment files, please navigate to the Final_44 directory in the git hub repository* *-To view any intermediary files, please navigate to the Intermediary_files directory in the git hub repository**-Finally the key to the color scheme is this:*<span style="color:blue">blue</span> - directory<span style="color:red">red</span> - commands that did not work and were removed<span style="color:green">green</span> - code from online sources<span style="color:purple">purple</span> - check commands run during processing	black - imformational<br><br>##Data Inspection### File (fang_et_al_genotypes.txt)**Number of lines**: 2783**Number of words**: 2744038**Number of bytes/characters**: 11051939**Disk Usage**: 11 megabytes**Number of Columns**: 986**Type of text**: ASCII<br><br>### File snp_position.txt**Number of lines**: 984**Number of words**: 13198**Number of bytes/characters**: 83747**Disk Usage**: 82 kilobytes**Number of Columns**: 15**Type of text**: ASCII<br><br>## Data Processing_before we start:_	* start with sorting the snp_position.txt file		sort -k1,1 snp_position.txt > sorted_snp_position.txt	* some great commands for checking constantly:<span style="color:purple">wc</span> - the word count was good at giving lines and words and characters. you could also use wc -l for just lines. <span style="color:purple">cut -f 1,2,3,4,5 snp\_position\_.txt | column -t | head</span> - this one I created to give me a printed display of the first 5 columns. this was much better than using head every time. the column -t kept things very clean by making a table.<span style="color:purple">awk -F "\t" '{print NF; exit}' "file"</span> - this is the command to tell you how many columns are within a file<span style="color:purple">file </span> - this command allows you to check what kind of text is contained within your file###Maize Genotypes/ teosinte	* I will be doing the workthrough using the maize files, but the teosinte files were processed the same way.1. grep "Sample_ID" fang\_et\_al\_genotypes.txt > maizedata.txt	* grabbing the header line from the fang file and creating a new file with it2. grep -E "ZMMIL|ZMMLR|ZMMMR" fang\_et\_al\_genotypes.txt >> maizedata.txt	* using an expanded shell, I search the fang file for all lines that contain these sequences. I then appended those lines to the previously created file.3. awk -f transpose.awk maizedata.txt > transposed\_maizedata.txt	* I transposed the created file to shift the file structure rotationally, aligning it with the snp_position.txt file	* I also used these commands, but when I did this it lead to an error and was ultimately unnecessary (see below):	* <span style="color:red">grep "SNP\_ID" snp_position.txt >snp_positiondata.txt</span>	* <span style="color:red">tail -n +2 snp_position.txt | sort -k1 >> snp_positiondata.txt</span>4. sort -k1,1 transposed\_maizedata.txt > sorted\_maizedata.txt	* I used the sort command to sort the transposed file based on the first column by character5. join -t  $'\t' -1 1 -2 1 sorted\_snp\_position.txt sorted\_maizedata.txt > joined\_maizedata.txt	*I joined the sorted file with the previous sorted\_snp\_genotype.txt file	* <span style="color:purple">the column check is great here</span>6.  cut -f 1,3,4 joined\_maizedata.txt > ordered\_maizedata.txt	* I cut out the columns 1,3 and 4 then placed them in a new file7.  cut -f 2,5- joined\_maizedata.txt > ordered\_maizedata2.txt	* I cut out the 2, 5 and every column after 5 and placed those in an addition new file8. paste ordered\_maizedata.txt ordered\_maizedata2.txt > correct\_maizedata.txt	*I got this command off of the internet, but the past command lets you combine the files based on column, side by side	* <span style="color:purple">the column check is great here</span>	* <span style="color:green">this was an acquired code</span>	 - 8b. touch question\_maizedata.txt		* to fit my file scheme, I had to move the information from one file to another. It was a good experience for me, to complete this task within the shell.	- 8c. mv correct\_maizedata.txt question_maizedata.txt		* I created a new file, then moved the contents from the previous file to the new one9. sort -k3n question\_maizedata.txt > increasing\_maizedata.txt	* I sorted the combined file based on the third column in increasing numerical order. this information was placed in a new folder.10. sed 's/?/-/g' question\_maizedata.txt > hyphen\_maizedata.txt	* In this command, I used the sed command to find "?" and replace it with "-", globally. This means that all of the "?" in the file will be replaced with "-". this information was then sent on to a new file	* <span style="color:purple">grep -c "?" in either file</span> - allows you to check the files for "?" to make sure they were removed.11. sort -k3nr hyphen\_maizedata.txt > decreasing\_maizedata.txt12. mkdir <span style="color:blue">increasing\_maize\_genotypes</span> 	* I made a receiving directory13. for i in {1..10}; do awk '$2=='$i'' increasing_maizedata.txt > <span style="color:blue">increasing\_maize\_genotypes</span> chrome"$i"\_maize\_increasing\_genotypes.txt; done	* this for loop was taken from #scripting\_help and modified for my purposes. This can be read as let i be 1:10, look for any values that match I in column 2 and push them into a single file within the directory. this will make 10 files containing a line matching chromosomes 1:10	* <span style="color:purple">make sure to check over the individual files you created. wc, column count, and using my nifty cut command is good too!</span>	* <span style="color:green">this was an acquired code</span>14. mkdir <span style="color:blue">decreasing\_maize\_genotypes</span>15. . for i in {1..10}; do awk '$2=='$i'' decreasing_maizedata.txt > <span style="color:blue">decreasing\_maize\_genotypes</span> chrome"$i"\_maize\_decreasing\_genotypes.txt; done15. $ awk '$2 ~ "unknown" {print $0}' question\_maizedata.txt > unknown\_maizedata.txt	* this awk command allows me to look for all lines in column 2 that contained "unknown" and put them in a new file16. $ awk '$2 ~ "multiple" {print $0}' question\_maizedata.txt > multiple\_maizedata.txt17.  mkdir <span style="color:blue">multiple\_unknown\_maizedata</span>18. mv -t <span style="color:blue">multiple\_unknown\_maizedata</span> multiple\_maizedata.txt unknown\_maizedata.txt	* the -t in this command allows me to move multiple files to a parent file or directory. in this case it is the blue directory.	* <span style="color:purple">use ls and cd command to ensure everything gets where it should go</span>	* <span style="color:green">this was an acquired code</span>## Git*I ended up with a bunch of directories and then had to get them to git. This is how I did that*1. I started by creating the repository in my folder using git's website GUI2. I created a directory to be linked with git hub in the file I was working in3. I used git clone and the ssh key to link the made directory to the git hub repository	* <span style="color:purple">I should have created the git hub repository before hand, so I could track changes and save my work</span>	* <span style="color:purple">use git status to check what files are being tracked and/or staged, git branch to see what branch you are on and git pull origin master if you delete everything (something that happened to me!)</span>4. Then I used git add -A to stage all my changes5. then I used git commit -m "leave a message for future you!"6. finally, I git push origin master to move it all in!